>> Will Sentance: Partial application and
carrying, let's take it back to
where we saw our glorious situation
where we could run through
our list of functions by name,
line by line by line by line.
And were Seth raised,
hold on if you're doing that,
what if one of these functions
is taking two inputs?
I know that my core functional programming
principle is playing out here,
where I also run multiply by two on 11.
And its output combining two to become
one, is auto inserted into add three.
If add three is actually add two numbers
together, and that insertion of three
is gonna be three and I guess undefined,
which is gonna combine to be not a number,
probably, and pass that through to
the next one that's broken everything.
So can I only use functions
that taking one input?
That's gonna limit me quite a lot.
I don't wanna have to ride a motorbike by
2 function and multiply by 7 function and
multiply by 5 function, I wanna write
a multiply two numbers function.
And then dynamically when I use it insert
whether it's by two or by seven or
by five, same with,
add three I don't write add,
I wanna be able to write a function add
two numbers, use it again and again for
whatever numbers I wanna use it on,
do I have to rewrite functions?
No, have a look here, what if I were
able to use the fact that I can
have a function whose backpack
has a little baby function and
it's supposed one that took two arguments.
And store one of the arguments right
there in the backpack, meaning when I run
this function, it'll appear to be, I don't
know, running a function with one input.
Inside, it'll run a backpack function with
my prefilled input inserted
as the other input.
And I'll have converted, a function
that may be in here takes two inputs,
with one of the inputs prefilled
in the backpack associated with
the function I end up running,
that only takes in one input.
And through that input is a second
input in the backpack, and
use the pre saved input as the other one.
I'm gonna be able to convert,
suppose I have a function,
multiply and it takes in,
>> Will Sentance: No,
multiply, whatever function multiply,
that takes in A and
B, and inside it returns out A by B,
I can't use this function,
this is a useless function
of my listing of functions.
But if I can convert it into
a function where one of
the values is pre-filled with two,
I basically have
multiplied by two, and
I can then run it with seven.
How am I gonna do it?
I'm gonna take the multiply function,
and I'm gonna take
a pre filled value have two, store them
in the backpack of a new function,
give it a nice useful name, but
really it's gonna be just like intervals.
But it's gonna run that
mode supply function in his
backpack with a two pre filled.
Function declaration used to
partially apply the functions to
an existing function wrapped up
in the backpack in a closure.
Really powerful here we go,
it's the final piece we do, and
it's gonna allow us to use functions
with arity, that means two inputs.
Where we expect a function with
arity of not two, but arity of one.
We're gonna be able to convert the arity
of our functions from two to one,
arity just means the number of inputs that
function remember parameters our function
is expecting.
We have an arity mismatch, if we have
a function which takes two inputs, and
we're trying to insert it in
our list of functions and
reduce otherwise known as compose, we've
got always an arity mismatch because every
function takes an output, and inserts
that next input you only have one output,
so you can't have any functions
expecting two inputs.
All right, almost there people,
almost there, so here we go.
Function composition is so powerful get a
list of each function, but every function
needs to behave exactly the same way to
yield one input, returning at one output.
Whatever function I want to use,
it expects two inputs is arity mismatch,
we need to decorate our function, to
prefill one of its arguments, it's inputs.
This actually in fact in practice
means creating a brand new
function,
>> Will Sentance: Brand new function we
can call it say, multiply by two,
and have it have in its backpack,
the actual multiply function,
and a pre filled input.
>> Will Sentance: With the input and
the multi argument function stored
conveniently in the backpack